# HTTP Requests

A page is generated by a web of HTML, CSS, and Javascript, sent to you by Codecademy via the internet. The internet is made up of a bunch of resources hosted on different servers. The term “resource” corresponds to any entity on the web, including HTML files, stylesheets, images, videos, and scripts. To access content on the internet, your browser must ask these servers for the resources it wants, and then display these resources to you. This protocol of requests and responses enables you view *this* page in your browser.

This article focuses on one fundamental part of how the internet functions: HTTP.

## What is HTTP?

HTTP is used to structure requests and responses over the internet. HTTP requires data to be transferred from one point to another over the network.

The transfer of resources happens using TCP (Transmission Control Protocol). In viewing this webpage, TCP manages the channels between your browser and the server (in this case, codecademy.com). TCP is used to manage many types of internet connections in which one computer or device wants to send something to another. HTTP is the command language that the devices on both sides of the connection must follow in order to communicate.

## How it works?

When you type an address such as [www.codecademy.com](https://codecademy.com/) into your browser, you are commanding it to open a TCP channel to the server that responds to that URL (or Uniform Resource Locator, which you can read more about on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Locator)). A URL is like your home address or phone number because it describes how to reach you.

In this situation, your computer, which is making the request, is called the client. The URL you are requesting is the address that belongs to the server.

Once the TCP connection is established, the client sends a HTTP *GET* request to the server to retrieve the webpage it should display. After the server has sent the response, it closes the TCP connection. If you open the website in your browser again, or if your browser automatically requests something from the server, a new connection is opened which follows the same process described above. GET requests are one kind of HTTP method a client can call. You can learn more about the other common ones ( *POST* , *PUT* and  *DELETE* ) in [this article](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/what-is-rest).

Let’s explore an example of how GET requests (the most common type of request) are used to help your computer (the client) access resources on the web.

Suppose you want to check out the latest course offerings from [http://codecademy.com](http://codecademy.com/). After you type the URL into your browser, your browser will extract the `http` part and recognize that it is the name of the network protocol to use. Then, it takes the domain name from the URL, in this case “codecademy.com”, and asks the internet Domain Name Server to return an Internet Protocol (IP) address.

## What is HTTPS

Since your HTTP request can be read by anyone at certain network junctures, it might not be a good idea to deliver information such as your credit card or password using this protocol. Fortunately, many servers support HTTPS, short for HTTP Secure, which allows you to encrypt data that you send and receive. You can read more about HTTPS on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTPS#Difference_from_HTTP).

HTTPS is important to use when passing sensitive or personal information to and from websites. However, it is up to the businesses maintaining the servers to set it up. In order to support HTTPS, the business must apply for a certificate from a [Certificate Authority](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority).
